README.md, before:

# Modularized GraphQL Boilerplate with Testing
[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/WhatTheFar/modularizing-graphql-boilerplate/tree/master.svg?style=svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/WhatTheFar/modularizing-graphql-boilerplate/tree/master)

Fully-feature modularized GraphQL Server boilerplate with production-ready containerized workflow.

## Overview

* Easiest way to run a GraphQL server: Sensible defaults & includes everything you need with minimal setup.
* Practical: Built-in scripts to facilitate common workflows.
* Production-ready: Containerized with nginx and letsencrypt configuration.
* Testability: Including complete testing environment wih modular package.

This project is based on the following libraries & tools:
* [`graphql-yoga`](https://github.com/prisma/graphql-yoga): Fully-featured GraphQL server framework
* [`graphql-shield`](https://github.com/maticzav/graphql-shield): GraphQL Server permissions as another layer of abstraction!
* [`merge-graphql-schemas`](https://github.com/okgrow/merge-graphql-schemas): A utility library to facilitate merging of modularized GraphQL schemas and resolver objects.
* [`prisma`](https://github.com/prisma/prisma): GraphQL ORM-like* layer  between between your GraphQL API and database
* [`prisma-binding`](https://github.com/prisma/prisma-binding): GraphQL Binding for Prisma services (GraphQL Database)
* [`graphql-playground`](https://github.com/graphcool/graphql-playground): Interactive GraphQL IDE

## Getting started

### Configuration

Create a `.env` file in the root directory of your project. Add
environment-specific variables on new lines in the form of `NAME=VALUE`.

See `.env.example` for example.

### Clean project

To clean the project run following command(s).

```sh
bash scripts/clean-local.sh
```

> **Note:** Recommended for the first run.

### Run the project

1. (Optional) Clean project, follow [Clean Project](#clean-project) topic above. (Recommended if you run for the first time).
2. Start GraphQL server:
   ```sh
   bash scripts/run-local.sh
   ```
3. (Optional) Start [GraphQL Playground](https://github.com/prisma/graphql-playground):
   ```sh
   bash scripts/graphql-playground.sh
   ```
   > **NOTE:** To use desktop version of GraphQL Playground, download it from [releases](https://github.com/prisma/graphql-playground/releases) or [install via Homebrew](https://github.com/prisma/graphql-playground#installation).

### Seed the database
Seed initial data to database for development.

1. Make sure you have [run the project](#run-the-project)  once.
2. Recommended for an empty database. If database is dirty, there might occurs some error during the seed.
3. Seed the database:
    ```sh
    bash scripts/seed.sh
    ```
## Testing

### Run the test

1. Make sure you have [run the project](#run-the-project) once.
2. Setting up test environment:
   ```sh
   bash scripts/setup-test.sh
   ```
3. Run the test:
    ```sh
    bash scripts/run-test.sh
    # OR
    bash scripts/run-watch-test.sh # To run test in watch mode
    ```
    > **NOTE**: Repeat step 3 to run test again

## Build & Deploy

```sh
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.prod.yml build --force-rm
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.prod.yml up -d
```
## Contributing

Contributions are **welcome and extremely helpful** 🙌, feel free to make discussions and open a pull request.

This project use angular [commit message guidelines](https://github.com/angular/angular/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#-commit-message-guidelines), please refer to the guildlines for more information.

License
-

    Copyright 2018 Jakpat Mingmongkolmitr

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

       http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

Commit message:

docs(README): add alternative for run the project

README.md, after:

# Modularized GraphQL Boilerplate with Testing
[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/WhatTheFar/modularizing-graphql-boilerplate/tree/master.svg?style=svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/WhatTheFar/modularizing-graphql-boilerplate/tree/master)

Fully-feature modularized GraphQL Server boilerplate with production-ready containerized workflow.

## Overview

* Easiest way to run a GraphQL server: Sensible defaults & includes everything you need with minimal setup.
* Practical: Built-in scripts to facilitate common workflows.
* Production-ready: Containerized with nginx and letsencrypt configuration.
* Testability: Including complete testing environment wih modular package.

This project is based on the following libraries & tools:
* [`graphql-yoga`](https://github.com/prisma/graphql-yoga): Fully-featured GraphQL server framework
* [`graphql-shield`](https://github.com/maticzav/graphql-shield): GraphQL Server permissions as another layer of abstraction!
* [`merge-graphql-schemas`](https://github.com/okgrow/merge-graphql-schemas): A utility library to facilitate merging of modularized GraphQL schemas and resolver objects.
* [`prisma`](https://github.com/prisma/prisma): GraphQL ORM-like* layer  between between your GraphQL API and database
* [`prisma-binding`](https://github.com/prisma/prisma-binding): GraphQL Binding for Prisma services (GraphQL Database)
* [`graphql-playground`](https://github.com/graphcool/graphql-playground): Interactive GraphQL IDE

## Getting started

### Configuration

Create a `.env` file in the root directory of your project. Add
environment-specific variables on new lines in the form of `NAME=VALUE`.

See `.env.example` for example.

### Clean project

To clean the project run following command(s).

```sh
bash scripts/clean-local.sh
```

> **Note:** Recommended for the first run.

### Run the project

1. (Optional) Clean project, follow [Clean Project](#clean-project) topic above. (Recommended if you run for the first time).
2. Start GraphQL server:
   ```sh
   bash scripts/run-local.sh
   ```
3. (Optional) Start [GraphQL Playground](https://github.com/prisma/graphql-playground):
   ```sh
   bash scripts/graphql-playground.sh
   ```
   > **NOTE:** To use desktop version of GraphQL Playground, download it from [releases](https://github.com/prisma/graphql-playground/releases) or [install via Homebrew](https://github.com/prisma/graphql-playground#installation).

**NOTE:** This is a recommended method to run local dev server, but there is also an [alternative method](#run-the-project-(alternative)) to optimise development cycle.

### Seed the database
Seed initial data to database for development.

1. Make sure you have [run the project](#run-the-project)  once.
2. Recommended for an empty database. If database is dirty, there might occurs some error during the seed.
3. Seed the database:
    ```sh
    bash scripts/seed.sh
    ```

### Run the project (alternative)

This method is recommended for advanced docker user. See [`setup-dev.sh`](scripts/setup-dev.sh), [`run-dev.sh`](scripts/run-dev.sh) for more details of the scripts.

1. Make sure you have [run the project](#run-the-project) once.
2. Setting up dev environment:
   ```sh
   bash scripts/setup-dev.sh
   ```
3. Run the test:
    ```sh
    bash scripts/run-dev.sh
    ```
    > **NOTE**: Repeat step 3 to run server again


## Testing

### Run the test

1. Make sure you have [run the project](#run-the-project) once.
2. Setting up test environment:
   ```sh
   bash scripts/setup-test.sh
   ```
3. Run the test:
    ```sh
    bash scripts/run-test.sh
    # OR
    bash scripts/run-watch-test.sh # To run test in watch mode
    ```
    > **NOTE**: Repeat step 3 to run test again

## Build & Deploy

```sh
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.prod.yml build --force-rm
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.prod.yml up -d
```
## Contributing

Contributions are **welcome and extremely helpful** 🙌, feel free to make discussions and open a pull request.

This project use angular [commit message guidelines](https://github.com/angular/angular/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#-commit-message-guidelines), please refer to the guildlines for more information.

License
-

    Copyright 2018 Jakpat Mingmongkolmitr

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

       http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.
